# Customer-Sales-Dashboard

This project is set to analyze sales data, identify trends, top selling products, and revenue for business decision making.

**DATA CLEANING**
The data cleaning was performed using Power Query and analyzed using powerBI

**KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS.**
- The total revenue generated amounted to $34.492m.
- Profit margin of 58.8%
- The total quantity of order placed on all the product amounted to 209k.

**INSIGHTS**
1.  The fourth quarter saw the highest revenue, with December generating the highest sales of $4.613 million, or 13.37% of total sales. The first quarter saw the lowest sales, with January being the lowest month.

2.  With sales of an astounding $8.262 million, San Francisco accounted for 23.95% of all city-based sales, while Austin's sales came in at $1.819 million, or 5.27% of all city-based sales.
 
3.  The MacBook Pro laptop was the most profitable product, bringing in an astounding $8.037 million, or 23.30% of the total revenue generated by product sales. Despite being the sixth least ordered item, the product's exceptional performance was credited to its opulent nature, with 4.728 thousand pieces sold.

4.  AAA and AA batteries generated the least amount of money, accounting for $92.470 thousand (0.26%) and $106.118 thousand (0.31%) respectively, while being the third and fourth most often ordered commodities.

5.  In terms of orders placed, the USB-C and Lightning charging cables came in top and second place, respectively. Also, with 23.975 thousand and 23.217 thousand units ordered, respectively, they took third and fourth place in terms of amount ordered.

**RECOMMENDATION**
- Since the Macbook Pro laptop has the largest number of sales, it is imperative that attention be paid to it. In response to consumer demands and market trends, they take into account extending their product line.
  
- They can take advantage of the Christmas season and special promotions to enhance sales at this time. They should also optimize inventory management to meet the increased demand during peak seasons, especially in light of the good performance in the fourth quarter.
  
- Because AAA and AA batteries have a high order volume and will eventually become a noticeable source of revenue, it is imperative to concentrate on them.
  
This is the link to the final dashboard.
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HvBmp33_6mbNFS3iIeaH0yTyUjGRwg3F/view?usp=drive_link
